Okay we've gone in and we added in a publisher entity but we didn't do any further mapping for that.
So we do have a publisher entity but it's not related to anything. In a logical sense,
a publisher is probably going to be publishing many books and a book typically is only gonna have one
publisher.
So what we're going to do is we're going to set up the JPA relationships for that.
I'm just going to step through this to get our feet wet with these relationships.
This is a pretty common situation so our publisher is going to have a set of books and our book is going
to have a publisher property. I'm going to jump over to IntelliJ, modify the classes to show
this relationship, and then show you the JPA annotations that we use to tell Hibernate how these are
related. And don't worry, I'm going to go through this a little bit quicker.
I have a whole section on mapping where I dive into these mappings a lot deeper.
Here we are just setting up a really fundamental data model and getting accustomed to JPA a little bit
before we move on with the building our Spring Framework web application.
So let's go in and start doing the mapping to configure publisher to have a set of books. So I'm going to come
in here and let's do private set
say books and call it books.
So and then also one thing that we want to do is when we're working with sets like this, we want to
initialize it. There's a couple of different ways to do this.
But the easiest is to just say new HashSet to default it to an empty HashSet. That is by far the simplest
technique here of setting that up.
If you do not this can really catch you because if you forget to initialize it at runtime that book's
property has been initiated at all and you will get a infamous NPV error.
So that takes care of the publisher mapping.
Now let's come over to the book and then also set up a book publisher there.
So that sets him up.
Let's go in and also add and getters and setters for that. So that initialize is that.
And on the publisher, I forgot to add in the getters and setters. I normally do this altogether but
for clarity I'm just gonna add the getters and setters right here. So that takes care of the Java side.
So now we need to address the other side as far as the JPA mapping.
So a here on the publisher what we want to do is annotate that property and we are going to say at one
too many.
So one too many meaning that the publisher is one and it has many books. On the book side,
we are going to do just the opposite and here what we are going to say many to one so that that is the
opposite.
So that that is the inverse.
I mean now there's many publishers but it's only come in to this one entity.
So here's many to one and then one to many.
Now one other thing that we need to do here is we want to say a join column and we are going to give
Hibernate a hint to use join column called
so.
Here we are saying publisher I.D. and IntelliJ do know a little squiggly under there because I am
configured a data source so it's trying to look at a database.
It's not finding it so it's giving me a warning there that's not finding that which is perfectly OK.
But what this is doing is giving Hibernate a hint to add in a publisher I.D. to the book record to track
the publisher so that's going to create a foreign key relationship underneath the covers for us. So pretty
elegant little mapping here.
So we don't need to have a joined table or anything like that. Very simple mapping to set that up.
So now the last thing that we want to do is come in here and initialize some bootstrap data. So let's
come over here.
Remember we're already creating a publisher.
Now what we want to do is go in and add in that publisher so we can say for DDD set the publisher to
our publisher and then also on our publisher we can get books and add and the DDD book, Domain Driven
Designed by Eric.
And here we actually want to go and save that too because now that entity is changing. So let's say publisher
repository. Save. Save publisher. Let's do the same thing for the noEJB book.
And then finally we'll save publisher repository and here let's go ahead and I'm going to do a system
out and we'll say so we'll just display the number of books assigned to a publisher.
And if I want to get fancy I could go and actually retrieve this out of the database.
But I think this is good enough for our purposes.
When you say publisher get book stuff size like so and let's come up here to the Spring web application.
So this is the main class. I'm just going to click the Run here to initialize that.
And again what's happening is Spring is initializing. It's going to bring up Hibernate. Hibernate
is going to see your JPA configuration, creates our database the bootstrap class runs and you can see
here we started in bootstrap one publisher two books and the publisher has two books so just exactly
as we expected.
So just to shut this down and do a quick recap here.
So on publisher we are doing a one to many meaning that one publisher has many books and we are doing a
set of books and then the join column is giving Hibernate a hint that on the books we are going to have
publisher ID to reference back to what publisher has.
And so we just added in the books property and then getters and setters for the books.
And then on the book entity we did use the opposite annotation.
Many publishers to one book.
So we have a publisher property, a singular property, and we use the many to one annotation and then provide
it getters and setters for that.
And then finally and bootstrap data we initialize the publisher and save that relationship. You can
see on the final line sixty seven there we're doing the output to prove that the publisher does have
two books assigned to it.
So it completes the mapping a publisher to books.
You can see it does get a little confusing and I'm sure it does first time going through it. I still
have to go back and carefully think through when I'm doing these JPA Mavericks because there's a lot
of stuff that's going out.
But if you've been following along, one thing that has not been happening.
If you notice we haven't written any SQL out at all.
We didn't develop any SQL. What's happening under neath the covers I don't think I'm pointing
this out before his Hibernate is actually generating the SQL DDL statements to go out and create the
database tables based on our JPA definition.
So this is all happening transparently and there are settings for that. This is stuff that will explain
further into the course.
But just wanted you to think now that we're literally coming up, we are creating an entities. Those are
getting to an actual in-memory H2 database but initialization if you look at the logs you will see Hibernate
is actually initializing the database, it's generating that SQL statements based on that entities that
we've created.
And then when we populate these entities and say save haven is going in and creating the SQL statements
to insert the data for us.
So it really does alleviate a lot of stuff that we have to do especially as far as creating tables, maintaining
those tables, doing all the SQL statements because I've written plenty of pure SQL JDBC stuff
and it is very very verbose.
So we want to take a moment to point out to you what we are not writing by using Hibernate and Spring
Data JPA.